Task 1a) Aside from the already implemented visual variables (position, size & color hue) in Figure 1, what are two further visual variables that could be used to encode more information in the scatterplot? 

Give two examples on which data dimension could be encoded by which visual variable. (The dataset contains the following dimensions: "species", "body_mass_g", and "sex". You can inspect the data under data.js.) 

Shape for sex
Texture for species
Color value for body_mass_g


Task 1b) Which problems could arise in Figure 1 when using size to encode 
i) "body_mass_g"? 
ii) "sex"? 

i) Not proportional????
ii) It could be ordered spontaneously by the viewer. It could be thought that there is some kind of hierarchy or proportionality between the two categories

Task 1c) Explain the principle of pre-attentive processing and its relevance in selecting appropriate visual variables for effective data communication. 

Pre-attentive processing refers to those visual properties that are percieved very rapidly and accurately by humans (less than 200 to 250 milliseconds). 

Knowing which features are processed this way helps to decide how to encode the most important information in the visualization. At the same time, conjunctions that inhibit pre-attentive recognition should be avoided. It should be noted that some features are asymmetric and therefore similar dispositions may not have the same impact on the viewer.


Task 1d) Argue which Gestalt Law(s) contribute most to the perception of clusters in Figure 1? Set them in relationship to the implemented visual variables (position, size & color hue).


Similarity (color hue, size) - The correlation between island of origin (as color hue) and culmen lenght and depth (as position) makes it easy to identify the existing cluster patterns. The further correlation with size is useful, but not as dominant visually as color hue and position.

(connectednes?? for overlapping)
(continuity?? points close to the centroid may be perceived as part of a cluster due to its continuity with more central points)

